# DUPLICATE QUESTION DETECTION IN QUORA DATASET
In this project, our focus was on identifying duplicate questions. By leveraging machine learning techniques and Quora's question pair dataset, we developed models to classify questions as duplicate or non-duplicate.
Our goal was to enhance the user experience by improving content quality and quantity through effective duplicate question detection.

Quora is the most popular question-answer platform where users can create and edit answers and also comment on questions and their answers. The negative side of a question-answer platform is that Quora has to deal with repeated questions and answers which is a difficult task. To determine duplicate or similar questions, natural language processing is the most effective method. The cost of miss classification of duplicate questions is very high. Identifying semantically identical questions on, Question and Answering(Q&A) social media platforms like Quora is exceptionally significant to ensure that the quality and the quantity of content are presented to users, based on the intent of the question and thus enriching the overall user experience. Detecting Duplicate questions is a challenging problem because natural language is very expressive, and a unique intent can be conveyed using different words, phrases, and sentence structuring.

In this project, taking Quora as our case study, we explored and applied different machine-learning techniques to the task of identifying duplicate questions on Quora’s question pair dataset. Machine learning models are trained with features that can help solve this problem. That is why Quora decided to publish the challenge of classifying duplicate and non-duplicate questions using natural language processing and machine learning on the Kaggle website where they can get many good solutions for their problem. The task is a binary classification problem where we need to classify duplicate and non-duplicate questions. To solve this problem various machine learning models are trained with features that can help solve this problem.

Dataset Link - https://www.kaggle.com/c/quora-question-pairs
